## Caroline Phillips (cdphillips), 3/26/26, Supercomputing Assignment 7

### Task 1: directory setup

I made 00\_setup.sh to make my data and output directories in scr10. I made the data and scripts directories in SUPERCOMPUTING/assignments/assignment\_07 by hand. The user will need to install the libraries used in this assignment (datasets, sra\-toolkit, bbmap, and samtools) on their own (sorry I ran out of time, otherwise I definitely would’ve set this up for users).

### Task 2: downloading sequence data

The search terms I used to pick 10 accessions were (("metagenomic"\[Source\]) AND "illumina"\[Platform\]) AND "random"\[Selection\]. This file is SraRunTable.csv and is in the data directory of assignment\_07, which I got there by using WinSCP. 

01\_download\_data.sh has the paths to data and output directories at the top, and then starts by downloading the data using the names from the metadata. The for loop gets the list of data file names in column 1 of the metadata and eliminates the headers. I ran fasterq-dump on each name and put the resulting data files in ~/scr10/assignment\_7/data/raw, and tried 8 threads with the -e flag. The files are gzipped since the other tools used in the assignment can work with fastq.gz files.

Outside of the for loop, the next step is downloading the dog reference genome. The “datasets” tool can be used to get the genome for “Canis familiaris”, and the \-\-reference flag ensures that we only get reference data. I named this dog\_reference\_genome.zip, which I then unzipped. I tried the \-j flag, which ignores directory structure, so that I could search only for files ending in “.fna”. The \-d flag puts the .fna file in ~/scr10/data/dog\_reference. The zip file is then removed, and the .fna file is renamed to be dog\_reference\_genome.fna

### Task 3: cleaning raw reads

The data and output file paths are at the top of 02\_clean\_reads.sh. The for loop condition is the same as in the first script. I make 4 file names for the raw forward and reverse data and then clean forward and reverse data, with those two made using bash pattern replacement.

fastp takes the 4 file names made for each file name in the metadata (fastp is in the for loop too), uses 8 threads with the \-w flag, and the html and json files are sent to /dev/null.


### Task 4: mapping clean reads to dog genome

03\_map\_reads.sh also has the data and output directories’ paths at the top like the other two scripts. I use the same for loop condition as the past scripts, and create the file names for the clean data to use as parameters for bbmap. The bbmap ref parameter was provided the path to dog\_reference\_genome.fna as well to map the my reads and the dog reads against each other, and the bbmap output .sam file goes into ~/scr10/output with a name matching the metadata name. The minimum alignment (minidis 0.95). I set the maximum memory to 32GB using \-Xmx32g as a parameter.

### Task 5: extracting matching reads

This line is also in 03\_map\_reads.sh. I provide the samtools command with the path to the .sam file generated by bbmap, and pipe this to a new .sam file named with the metadata file name and \_dog\-matches.sam. I also use the \-F 4 flag to exclude unmapped reads as provided in the assignment notes.

### Task 6: slurm script

This is stored as assignment\_7\_pipeline.slurm. The stdout and stderr are given absolute paths to /sciclone/home/cdphillips/scr10/assignment\_7/output/\[file name\]. The three scripts are made executable using chmod and called in the slurm script.

### Task 8: inspecting results

I will get into this more in the reflection part of this assignment, but I do not have any results currently due to facing errors and running out of time to run the pipeline. :\(

### Reflection

I found this assignment to definitely be the most challenging of all the ones we’ve had so far. Despite starting around the same time I usually do (unfortunately I could not start earlier in the week due to other classes’ deadlines), I was not able to run this script with enough time to get results before the due date. 

My first mistake was not sending my data to scr10, which led to a few emails that gave me quite the scare and me fixing all of my file paths in the scripts. I made a few typos in the slurm script that were easy to fix, but the biggest problem was the error “Failed to call external services.” which I got in my .err file almost immediately after the job started. I think it is related to fasterq\-dump and how it gets the data using the metadata file name list, however I was unable to find a solution. This was the roadblock that prevented me from seeing if the pipeline worked out, and unfortunately the error only started occurring after I was done changing things late at night before the assignment due date. I figured I should submit what I could for this assignment even though I didn’t get results.

I also think that the scale of this assignment was larger than I expected, so it felt more challenging and also a bit intimidating to (attempt to) use the HPC for. I was unsure of how to decide what parameters to choose for the slurm script since I wasn't sure how long the job would take or how many resources I needed.

The biggest thing I’ve learned is to make sure I set up my directories properly and have data go to scr10! I also learned about some parameters needed for the tools used in the scripts, and I think writing for loops was helpful to get comfortable with the syntax.


 

