
<p>While I knew William and Mary had high-performance computing capabilites, I never knew how I'd be able to use it on this campus. When I saw this course as a new data science option, I decided to enroll (and I'll be honest, the description I saw of this course did not mention bioinformatics at all, so that was a surprise!). I want to laern about high-performance computing because it is an area that is missing in my education at William and mary so far. While I don't know much about it right now, I look forward to learning more this semester.</p>
<br>
<p>This semester, I hope to pick up a lot of skills that I can carry to other classes, and get a solid understanding of how to use the high-performance computing environment.While I have seen some of the content in this class before (unix commands, etc), I hope to use this as a chance to reinforce what I've learned before, especially things that didn't stick well the first time. For learning this semester, I want to stay on top of reviewing materials outside of class as best as I can and do extra practice on skills covered, especially if there are topics I am not very good at or don't have a good grasp on. Since I want to do well on the in-class quizzes, I think the practice outside of class will be especially important. I haven't had a problem with this in other classes, but I would like to get all assignments completed at least a day before thee due date in case of technical problems.</p>
<br>
<p>My plan of attack for this course is to look at class materials before the lexture (even if it's just a glance), ask questions when I'm unsure about a topic or instructions, and to utilize practice provided by the professor, textbooks, and anything else I may find on the internet to study with.</p>
<br>
<p>In this assignment's file structure specifically, it is easy to figure out where everything is because the names of the files are straighforward and there is enough subdivision that items couldn't fall into multiple categories. Files need to be shared so they can be reproduced, and it is important to document everything you do to show that your findings are accurate. In my file structure, the logs folder is a place to put information on versions of software and data that researchers would need to know to reproduce a project. The docs folder can hold important documenation about how an experiment was carried out and make clear what steps were taken in a project. The scripts folder is important so others can see code and scripts used and be able to easily reproduce results. It is also a good idea to have a separate data folder to keep original versions of data away from files that get modified. Having a folder like this can also help withreproducibility as original data can be compared to data with changes made. I also included a configs folder to hold information on setups, and a results folder to contain any findings in a place that is easy to find.</p>
<br>
<p>It is important to use documented code so research can be reproduced. Well-documented code can make it easier for researchers to understand the steps taken in the research and the logic behind decisions made, as well as where data came from, when you got the data, and what you did with it. Documented code can also help avoid mistakes or bugs, and indicating versions of tools or data used clears up any future confusion or poor results from using the wrong items. By writing straightforward code that is modular and heavily-commented, it will be easier to debug, understand, and reproduce the code when you and others look at it in the future.</p>
<br>
<p>As for additional things about me, I have no experience of or knowledge about bioinformatics and biology topics, so I am hoping this won't hinder my progress in class.</p>
